p8105_hw2_sw3879.md, before:

p8105_hw2_sw3879
================
Siqing Wang
2023-09-27

Importing libraries

``` r
library(tidyverse)
library(dplyr)
```

## Problem 1

Read `pols-month.csv` into a dataframe and clean up data

``` r
pols_month_df = 
  read_csv("data/pols-month.csv") |> 
  janitor::clean_names() |> 
  separate(mon, into = c("year", "month", "day"), sep = "-") |> 
  mutate(
    year = as.numeric(year),
    month = month.name[as.numeric(month)],
    president = ifelse(
      prez_gop > prez_dem, "gop", "dem"
    )
  ) |> 
  select(-day, -prez_gop, -prez_dem)
```

Cleaning data in `snp.csv`

``` r
snp_df = 
  read_csv("data/snp.csv") |> 
  janitor::clean_names() |> 
  mutate(
    date = format(as.Date(date, format = "%m/%d/%y"), "%Y/%m/%d")
  ) |> 
  separate(date, into = c("year", "month", "day"), sep = "/") |> 
  mutate(
    month = month.name[as.numeric(month)],
    year = as.numeric(year),
    year = ifelse(year > 2023, year - 100, year)
  ) |> 
  select(-day)
```

Pivoting `unemployment.csv` to long format

``` r
unemployment_df = 
  read_csv("data/unemployment.csv") |> 
  janitor::clean_names() |> 
  pivot_longer(
    jan:dec,
    names_to = "month",
    values_to = "unemployment"
  ) |> 
  mutate(
    year = as.numeric(year),
    month = month.name[match(month, tolower(month.abb))]
  )
```

Merging the 3 datasets

``` r
result_df = left_join(pols_month_df,snp_df, by = c("year", "month")) |> 
  left_join(unemployment_df, by = c("year", "month"))
```

TO DO: INSERT DESCRIPTION

## Problem 2

Read in the Mr. Trash Wheel sheet

``` r
trash_wheel_df = 
  readxl::read_excel("data/202207 Trash Wheel Collection Data.xlsx", 
                     sheet = "Mr. Trash Wheel", skip = 1) |> 
   janitor::clean_names() |>
  drop_na(dumpster) |> 
  select(-x15, -x16) |> 
  rename(homes_powered_old = homes_powered) |> 
  mutate(
    homes_powered = (weight_tons*500)/30,
    trash_wheel_name = "Mr. Trash Wheel"
  )
```

Read in professor trash wheel and gwynnda

``` r
gwynnda_trash_wheel_df = 
  readxl::read_excel("data/202207 Trash Wheel Collection Data.xlsx", 
                     sheet = "Gwynnda Trash Wheel", skip = 1) |> 
   janitor::clean_names() |>
  drop_na(dumpster) |> 
  rename(homes_powered_old = homes_powered) |> 
  mutate(
    homes_powered = (weight_tons*500)/30,
    trash_wheel_name = "Gwynnda Trash Wheel"
  )

prof_trash_wheel_df = 
  readxl::read_excel("data/202207 Trash Wheel Collection Data.xlsx", 
                     sheet = "Professor Trash Wheel", skip = 1) |> 
   janitor::clean_names() |>
  drop_na(dumpster) |> 
  rename(homes_powered_old = homes_powered) |> 
  mutate(
    homes_powered = (weight_tons*500)/30,
    trash_wheel_name = "Professor Trash Wheel"
  )
```

Commit message:

competed Q2, to add descriptions later

p8105_hw2_sw3879.md, after:

p8105_hw2_sw3879
================
Siqing Wang
2023-09-27

Importing libraries

``` r
library(tidyverse)
library(dplyr)
```

## Problem 1

Read `pols-month.csv` into a dataframe and clean up data

``` r
pols_month_df = 
  read_csv("data/pols-month.csv") |> 
  janitor::clean_names() |> 
  separate(mon, into = c("year", "month", "day"), sep = "-") |> 
  mutate(
    year = as.numeric(year),
    month = month.name[as.numeric(month)],
    president = ifelse(
      prez_gop > prez_dem, "gop", "dem"
    )
  ) |> 
  select(-day, -prez_gop, -prez_dem)
```

Cleaning data in `snp.csv`

``` r
snp_df = 
  read_csv("data/snp.csv") |> 
  janitor::clean_names() |> 
  mutate(
    date = format(as.Date(date, format = "%m/%d/%y"), "%Y/%m/%d")
  ) |> 
  separate(date, into = c("year", "month", "day"), sep = "/") |> 
  mutate(
    month = month.name[as.numeric(month)],
    year = as.numeric(year),
    year = ifelse(year > 2023, year - 100, year)
  ) |> 
  select(-day)
```

Pivoting `unemployment.csv` to long format

``` r
unemployment_df = 
  read_csv("data/unemployment.csv") |> 
  janitor::clean_names() |> 
  pivot_longer(
    jan:dec,
    names_to = "month",
    values_to = "unemployment"
  ) |> 
  mutate(
    year = as.numeric(year),
    month = month.name[match(month, tolower(month.abb))]
  )
```

Merging the 3 datasets

``` r
result_df = left_join(pols_month_df,snp_df, by = c("year", "month")) |> 
  left_join(unemployment_df, by = c("year", "month"))
```

TO DO: INSERT DESCRIPTION

## Problem 2

Read in the Mr. Trash Wheel sheet

``` r
trash_wheel_df = 
  readxl::read_excel("data/202207 Trash Wheel Collection Data.xlsx", 
                     sheet = "Mr. Trash Wheel", skip = 1) |> 
   janitor::clean_names() |>
  drop_na(dumpster) |> 
  select(-x15, -x16) |> 
  mutate(
    homes_powered = (weight_tons*500)/30,
    trash_wheel_name = "Mr. Trash Wheel",
    year = as.numeric(year)
  )
```

Read in professor trash wheel and gwynnda

``` r
gwynnda_trash_wheel_df = 
  readxl::read_excel("data/202207 Trash Wheel Collection Data.xlsx", 
                     sheet = "Gwynnda Trash Wheel", skip = 1) |> 
   janitor::clean_names() |>
  drop_na(dumpster) |> 
  mutate(
    homes_powered = (weight_tons*500)/30,
    trash_wheel_name = "Gwynnda Trash Wheel",
    year = as.numeric(year)
  )

prof_trash_wheel_df = 
  readxl::read_excel("data/202207 Trash Wheel Collection Data.xlsx", 
                     sheet = "Professor Trash Wheel", skip = 1) |> 
   janitor::clean_names() |>
  drop_na(dumpster) |> 
  mutate(
    homes_powered = (weight_tons*500)/30,
    trash_wheel_name = "Professor Trash Wheel",
    year = as.numeric(year)
  )
```

Combining three datasets

``` r
trashwheel_master = bind_rows(trash_wheel_df, prof_trash_wheel_df, gwynnda_trash_wheel_df)
```

TO DO: add descriptions to datasets

The combined master datasets for trash wheel has 747 rows and 16
columns.

The total weight of trash collected by Professor trash wheel is 190.12
tons.

the total number of cigarette butts collected by Gwynnda in July of 2021
is 1.63^{4}.
